Lyrics in the UK

Stratford-upon-Avon Town Hall (built 1767), bearing the painted slogan, "God Save the King".
The phrase "God Save the King" is much older than the song, appearing, for instance, several times in the King James Bible.
A text based on the 1st Book of Kings Chapter 1: verses 38–40, "And all the people rejoic'd, and said: God save the King!
Long live the King! May the King live for ever, Amen", has been sung and proclaimed at every coronation since that of King Edgar in 973.
Scholes says that as early as 1545 "God Save the King" was a watchword of the Royal Navy, with the response being "Long to reign over us".
He also notes that the prayer read in churches on anniversaries of the Gunpowder Plot includes words
which might have formed part of the basis for the second verse "Scatter our enemies...assuage their malice and confound their devices".

In 1745, The Gentleman's Magazine published "God save our lord the king: A new song set for two voices",
describing it "As sung at both Playhouses" (the Theatres Royal at Drury Lane and Covent Garden).
Traditionally, the first performance was thought to have been in 1745, when it was sung in support of King George II,
after his defeat at the Battle of Prestonpans by the army of Charles Edward Stuart, son of James Francis Edward Stuart,
the Jacobite claimant to the British throne.

It is sometimes claimed that, ironically, the song was originally sung in support of the Jacobite cause:
the word "send" in the line "Send him victorious" could imply that the king was absent.
However, the Oxford English Dictionary cites examples of "[God] send (a person) safe, victorious,
etc." meaning "God grant that he may be safe, etc.". There are also examples of early 18th-century drinking glasses
which are inscribed with a version of the words and were apparently intended for drinking the health of King James II and VII.

Scholes acknowledges these possibilities but argues that the same words were probably being used by both
Jacobite and Hanoverian supporters and directed at their respective kings.

In 1902, the musician William Hayman Cummings, quoting mid-18th century correspondence between Charles Burney and Sir Joseph Banks,
suggested that the words had been based on a Latin verse composed for King James II at the Chapel Royal.

O Deus optime
Salvum nunc facito
Regem nostrum
Sic laeta victoria
Comes et gloria
Salvum iam facito
Tu dominum.

Standard version in the United Kingdom

God save our gracious King!
Long live our noble King!
God save the King!
Send him victorious,
Happy and glorious,
Long to reign over us:
God save the King!

O Lord our God arise,
Scatter his enemies,
and make them fall:
Confound their politics,
Frustrate their knavish tricks,
On thee our hopes we fix:
God save us all!

Thy choicest gifts in store,
On him be pleased to pour;
Long may he reign:
May he defend our laws,
And ever give us cause,
To sing with heart and voice,
God save the King![1]